Dear all, we
see that our daily practice of dignified conduct is
very effective. If we don't
practice dignified conduct, we ourselves will
suffer.
For example, with mindful contemplation, we must
react very quickly to new tasks. Mindful
contemplation shared with the community
is entirely within this lifetime. Constant contemplation is also completely the same, isn't it, dear friends?
Sitting with our mouths closed, listening to the
master,
we are all the
same, we are all the same, it's
not that the master favors us.
Whatever the master teaches, it is either direct or
online. But the important thing is that
we differ in our
listening and obedience. That's the only
difference. Is that all? Whether
we practice or not, if we don't listen and don't practice, we
suffer, is
n't that right, dear friends? We ourselves
suffer. Sometimes we argue about right and
wrong, saying one thing for nothing, it's not
beneficial. Everyone must die.  But you,
my dear friend, you must also die, the person
next to you must also die.
What's the point of comparing yourself
to others? Isn't it true that you, my dear friend, are not
superior to the world? The world
also dies, and you are also afraid of yourself.
So what benefit do you gain from comparing yourself to
yourself? What is superior?
We should strive for what is superior, what is inferior, right?
We should reject what is unwholesome, and discard what is unwholesome, right?
We should accept what is good and beautiful. Therefore, when
we train like this, we gain a lot, right? We gain a lot, not just a little.
So, we encounter the true
Dharma and equality, right? We encounter the true Dharma and equality,
right?
Whether we practice it
or not is up to us. It's not about who is superior, but about ourselves. We are the ones who cause us harm, and
we are the ones who cause us harm, and we are the ones who
cause us to gain. Isn't that right, my
dear friend? You should wait, you should wait, and you
will
see the Buddha.  We must also take our bodies with us. So
we surely won't die, right? When we
die, we take with us... What do we take with us? Right and wrong, gain and loss, right and wrong, right and wrong, right and wrong?
Why not the Venerable Masters
take with us? That's what we take with us when we die. That's what
suffering is. How can we
take with us the good things?
Therefore, the mind-controlling practice of mindfulness often says
that when you have a body, don't think about what's right beside
you. If we think about what's right beside
us, we can't
practice. We should always look at others, whether they are good or bad. We shouldn't look at ourselves like that; only look at ourselves, whether we are good or bad. The outside world is merely an object for us to practice
goodness. Isn't
that right, Venerable Masters? That's why here, the mind-controlling practice
reminds us very concisely so that you, Venerable Masters,
know this: Today we come here, to the
place where the Buddha attained Nirvana. We must
clearly understand that the
Buddha had a body composed of the four elements. The impermanence
of the body is what the Buddha taught,
and we too must...  Because of
impermanence, we cannot live forever,
but we cannot attain Nirvana
like the Buddha. We are bound by our karma, the
karma we create.
Therefore, if a person with determination
encounters the Buddha's teachings, they will only focus on the
Buddha's teachings, they will live solely with the
Buddha's teachings, solely with the Buddha
's teachings. Those who know how to practice must understand that there is no one around us, no one around us; we are alone, solitary. We only compete with our own unwholesome mind, right?
We must surpass it, we must
eliminate it, right, Venerable Ones?
We must see that in
this world, only we are unique, only then can
we practice. We only surpass
our own fiery mind, so that
we can overcome
our unwholesome mind. Those
around us are merely objects for us to
practice the Dharma, right,
Venerable Ones? We don't compete with the world,
Venerable Ones. Competing with the world is self-destructive.
Encountering the Buddha's teachings is rare; one must meet a truly
virtuous person.  It's
as difficult to practice the Dharma as it is to meet Phi, is
n't it, esteemed friends? If we
don't meet a master, how can we practice? We do
n't know where to start, we just
read the scriptures, right? Now
that we have found the true Dharma, we have found a
virtuous and knowledgeable person to help
us, so we must strive to practice.
Today we return to the place of
Nirvana, the place where the Buddha attained Nirvana. Let's
remind each other and encourage each other. If we compete with the
world, we will die, esteemed friends. If
we are just one sentence better than others,
we will fall into deep hell.
We must live rightly, because if
we live better than others, we will die. If we are just a
little bit better than others, we will
die, right, esteemed friends? If we compete with others, we will
use whatever we want, whether it's fame,
power, or strength, just one bit better than others will lead to
death for countless lifetimes.
Isn't that right, esteemed friends? That's
why we must study the true Dharma
thoroughly and understand it so that we can practice correctly.
That's why, in Germany...  Our Buddha
had a saying, "But today there is no more winning
or losing." We must learn from that saying. If we have a
bad reputation, we will always be
competing with others. The Buddha said, "Here, the
master is just giving an example. If we build
a beautiful house, and the neighbor isn't as good as
us, we immediately absorb it. Isn't it true that
we are all self-centered and
arrogant, self-contemptuous, and always looking
down on others? We are always
being taken advantage of. Losing to the world is the same. Isn't it true that we do
n't value the Dharma? It's the same
in the Dharma hall. Sometimes
we are the Dharma hall leader,
sometimes we are just an assistant. We don't
apply the Dharma anymore, we don't apply the Dharma
anymore. Why is there always winning and losing? We always
cling to power, shouting and using illegal words
to oppress others. Is that true?
But we, whether we speak loudly or softly, if it is true and correct,
then
that is very good.
Isn't that right? We don't lead the
country, we don't practice, and what do we become? We become truly
virtuous people.
That's the practice. But what if we do
n't practice correctly? Whatever we say
is just nonsense, like illegal gambling.
So once again, I urge the congregation to remember that the
Buddha's teachings are
incredibly precious, like the Buddha's Nirvana. If
we don't continue this path in this lifetime,
we will fall into the three evil paths. We don't
know when we will be able to
reach the human realm again. Isn't it true that even
as humans, encountering the true Dharma is very difficult? So, I urge the congregation to remember the Buddha's Nirvana and remind each other. How can we be truly mindful of the true Dharma, my dear leader? For example, if someone in
our group says
something wrong,
how should we react to please everyone
and
avoid being wrong? This
is a common question for the club: when
we see another Buddhist in
our group saying something wrong, we
are reminded, not us.  It's about
teaching people, not just instructing
them. I think this is wrong, it
violates the regulations. I would like to ask about
this matter. The club is very simple,
isn't it, esteemed members? Who is allowed to ask
such a question? I see that what you
are asking is wrong. Now, please give
me your name and the name of your group, and
I will bring this matter to the
club. The club's regulations
are as follows. After that,
we will bring it back to our group. If it's
not during this pilgrimage, we will bring it back to the group. The
group will then present it to the
club. That person said it
as such, that statement.
This part will be given to the organizing committee so that
all of us know.
Yes, I would like to correct you, Ms. Ha. The members want to say that the old woman is
also named as the one who wrote the inscription,
and I still remember that the old woman has been practicing for a long time. I am like you,
like my brothers and sisters, and I have also
built a chicken, called a "breathing chicken," and so I
also...  I've already worshipped them, and
generally speaking, for me, it's like that,
but some people, oh, there's a certain
profession that's quite rude, and when I'm not home,
they
bring the
ancestral tablets and offerings to the gods to give to my parents. But I'm
not obedient, and I'm not enlightened, so
today I want to ask for the blessings of the Lord. If I do
that, will I lose my
refuge? Yes, yes. Ah, to the entire
congregation, that means here, dear fellow practitioners,
that means we have to do it ourselves to
lose it. That means we
believe that our body, speech, and mind interact
with it, agree with it, and do it, then
we lose our refuge. If others
do it, we never lose our reverence. As for
worshipping ancestors, the Buddha taught
us to worship our ancestors, we only worship according to the Dharma.
Even in this ceremony, for example, if you
are the head of the family, the eldest daughter-in-
law, then everyone else brings their
offerings, it's their business, it has nothing to do with you.
When you
offer the sacrifices, you can add another
prayer.  For example, if a fellow devotee is making an offering, they
just need to say, "I wish to offer
to my ancestors things that are in accordance with the Dharma," and that's enough.
The esteemed ones will understand. "I wish to
offer to the Four Righteous Deeds," that's all. The
rest is up to everyone's karmic
connection. That's how it is for everyone, so it does
n't affect anything. Because
each person has their own karmic connection; they can't be enlightened and they can't
decide what they want to offer. That's
their karmic connection. We still value the offerings made
to everyone, but because we
know what our ancestors can and
cannot use, we only offer it to
ourselves. If there's a karmic connection,
we can say, for example, "Since you all are
like this, you can offer this. I'll tell
you to bring one or two coins
here so I can take them back to the temple and
pray for the ancestors' souls." That's fine.
But if people don't have enough karmic connection, we ca
n't say, "Don't bring money or gold here,
don't bring it in." We can't say that because they don't have
enough karmic connection, we can't say that. If we can, then we can say, "
If we can,
then we can say..."  I'm telling you the truth,
you know what
I was like before, full of
gold and paper offerings. But then I went to
study Buddhism and I realized that it's not right, it's not good.
So, only practicing, chanting
scriptures, making offerings to the Three Jewels, doing good deeds and
dedicating the merit to our ancestors is very good.
So you guys come here to worship, just buy
food, whatever edible things you can offer to your
ancestors, that's good. As
for the rest of the paper offerings, reduce the amount of money spent,
reduce the amount of money spent. Put the money in the temple to make
offerings and build temples and statues. When the temple is
closed, the living will be at
peace, and the dead will be
reborn sooner. That's good, okay? Then
[music]